
Slow Burn
The Beijing government was pushing for the idea of the People’s Democracy and Socialism while simultaneously being threatened by ideas of the West. It was important for the Communist Party in China to combat the issues that the West brought by actively opposing the information of the West and stopping the spread of these ideas through the press and media. The government also exerted control over religious groups in order to create a more even playing field with no opposition from different cultures having an effect on the “ideological sphere.” The Beijing government is pursuing these goals so they could continue spreading their socialist ideas, slowly exerting more power over their citizens right under their nose. Under the rule of Xi Jinping since 2012, Beijing has been working to incorporate many new ideologies into their people as well as combat specific problems that are beginning to arise due to people disagreeing with the government.
Xi Jinping came into power in 2012 and he came to power in the 20th Party of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). He incorporated many economic programs; one of the major projects he worried about was the Silk Road; he invested billions of dollars in building the infrastructure of this “Economic Belt.” There was a lot of controversy involved about this economic decision, questions about whether it was helping the infrastructure or putting the country into a deep debt. Jinping had a dream of his own socialist society, a People’s Republic. He was the paramount leader in the, who held the positions of party chairman, president, and head of the Central Military Commission. He was determined to stay in power for a long time while developing a “Cult of Personality” throughout the country, and wanted the best for the country economically. He is said to remain the leader of the People’s Republic til after 2022, already 10 years of power and the head of the Military Commission until 2027; he is the most powerful leader since Mao.
Xi Jinping’s actions throughout the years included dealing with internal Party corruption, ending the one-child policy; which in turn is slowly fixing the gender gap that existed in China due to the tradition of male heirs, he also expanded China’s economic and military interests overseas. The goal of New Silk Road specifically was to create closer ties with Europe and Asia to further build their economic interests. The creation of the Nine-dash line is for China to have more maritime control in the South China Sea. He also created detention camps for Uyghurs in Xinjiang, this inhumane treatment of many minority groups so Jinping can achieve social integration easier with less opposition, he wants minorities to be silenced and his message to resonate with the majority population. These Uyghur Muslims are being held under horrible conditions and forced to be laborers. Additionally, he has made closer ties to his communist neighbor Vladimir Putin; both countries benefit in their economies, military decisions, politically, and other global issues. 
Jinping’s predecessor Hu Jintao announced the “Harmonious Society Resolution” in 2006. This document shared similar ideologies that Jinping has incorporated and continued in his time in office. The main message behind the work being the idea of harmony; “It says social harmony is the intrinsic element of socialism with Chinese characteristics and an important guarantee of the country’s prosperity, the nation’s rejuvenation and the people’s happiness” (Xinhua News Agency 1). The time frame given for all these principles to being incorporated was 2020; “improvement of the socialist democratic and legal system, guaranteeing respect for people’s rights and interests; narrowing the gap between urban and rural development and between different regions, increase of household wealth and enabling people to lead more affluent lives” (1). More goals included increasing the employment rate, establishing a social security system, stirring up more fervor on the ideological and moral front, and “...enhanced creativity of society as a whole and the development of an innovation-based nation.” All these goals are in order to create a like-minded society with socialist values. 
When Jinping came into power in 2012, he set out to continue influencing the people of the country that the government was creating every policy with the citizens’ best interest. In Document No.9 also known as the “Communiqué on the Current State of the Ideological Sphere,” which was distributed within the CCP, it highlighted seven Western values that were seen as a threat to the People’s Republic. These “seven noteworthy problems” consisted of: promoting a constitutional democracy (separation of powers, multi-party system, general elections) all, promoting “universal values” (democracy, freedom, equality, justice)  which were primarily those that aligned with Western values, promoting civil society (protection of individual rights), and promoting neoliberalism which “...advocated economic liberalization, complete privatization, and total marketization and it opposes any kind of interference or regulation by the state” (Yu 4). Additionally, the government opposed promoting journalism and the independent press, promoting historical nihilism (challenging the CCP), and questioning Socialism with the Chinese government. Along with these problems the document gave the government solutions in order to keep the ideological sphere strong in their position. These Western anti-China forces were to be paid attention to; they government were to strengthen their leadership with the party and make the ideological sphere a daily priority, guide the members of the party in the right direction and made sure they could distinguish between true and false information that circulated, the media was to be controlled by the Party members, lastly to continue to spread the correct propaganda and dismiss all media that pointed towards different viewpoints.