INVITATION
If you are a dreamer, come in,
If you are a dreamer, a wisher, a liar,
A hope-er, a pray-er, a magic bean buyer... If you’re a pretender, come sit by my fire For we have some flax-golden tales to spin. Come in! 
Come in!
HOW MANY, HOW MUCH 
How many slams in an old screen door? Depends how loud you shut it.
How many slices in a bread?
Depends how thin you cut it. 
How much good inside a day? Depends how good you live ‘em. How much love inside a friend? Depends how much you give ‘em. 
LISTEN TO THE MUSTN’TS 
Listen to the MUSTN’TS, child, Listen to the DON’TS
Listen to the SHOULDN’TS
The IMPOSSIBLES, the WON’TS Listen to the NEVER HAVES Then lost close to me— Anything can happen, child, ANYTHING can be. 


MASKS 
She had blue skin.
And so did he.
He kept it hid
And so did she.
They searched for blue Their whole life through, Then passed right by— And never knew. 


PANCAKE? 
Who wants a pancake,
Sweet and piping hot?
Good little Grace looks up and says, “I’ll take the one on top.”
Who else wants a pancake,
Fresh off the griddle?
Terrible Theresa smiles and says, “I’ll take the one in the middle.” 


SNOWBALL
I made myself a snowball As perfect as could be.
I thought I’d keep it as a pet And let it sleep with me.
I made it some pajamas And a pillow for its head. Then last night it ran away, But 􏰀rst—it wet the bed. 


SOMETHING MISSING 
I remember I put on my socks, I remember I put on my shoes. I remember I put on my tie That was printed 
In beautiful purples and blues.
I remember I put on my coat,
To look perfectly grand at the dance, Yet I feel there is something
I may have forgot—
What is it? What is it?... 








UNDERFACE 
Underneath my outside face There’s a face that none can see. A little less smiley,
A little less sure,
But a whole lot more like me. 


I WON’T HATCH
Oh I am a chicken who lives in an egg,
But I will not hatch, I will not hatch.
The hens they all cackle, the roosters all beg,
But I will not hatch, I will not hatch.
For I hear all the talk of pollution and war
As the people all shout and the airplanes roar,
So I’m staying in here where it’s safe and it’s warm, And I WILL NOT HATCH! 


PUT SOMETHING IN 
Draw a crazy picture,
Write a nutty poem,
Sing a mumble-gumble song, Whistle through your comb.
Do a loony-goony dance
‘Cross the kitchen floor,
Put something silly in the world That ain’t been there before. 


HUG O’WAR 
I will not play tug o’ war. I’d rather play hug o’ war, Where everyone hugs Instead of tugs, 
Where everyone giggles And rolls on the rug, Where everyone kisses, And everyone grins, And everyone cuddles, And everyone wins. 




MONSTERS I’VE MET
I met a ghost, but he didn’t want my head, He only wanted to know the way to Denver. I met a devil, but he didn’t want my soul, He only wanted to borrow my bike awhile. 
I met a vampire, but he didn’t want my blood, He only wanted to nickels for a dime.
I keep meeting all the right people—
At all the wrong times. 


EARLY BIRD Oh, if you’re a bird, be an early bird
And catch the worm for your breakfast plate. If you’re a bird, be an early bird—
But if you’re a worm, sleep late. 


JAKE SAYS 
Yes, I'm adopted.
My folks were not blessed
With me in the usual way.
But they picked me,
They chose me
From all the rest,
Which is lots more than most kids can say. 


COLORS 
My skin is kind of sort of brownish Pinkish yellowish white.
My eyes are grayish blueish green,
But I’m told they look orange in the night. My hair is reddish blondish brown, 
But it’s silver when it’s wet. And all the colors I am inside Have not been invented yet. 


MAGIC 
Sandra’s seen a leprechaun, Eddie touched a troll, 
Laurie danced with witches once, Charlie found some goblins’ gold. Donald heard a mermaid sing, Susy spied an elf, 
But all the magic I have known I’ve had to make myself. 


LITTLE PIG’S TREAT 
Said the pig to his pop, “There’s the candy shop. Oh, please let’s go inside. And I promise I won’t Make a kid of myself 
If you give me a people-back ride.” 


FALLING UP
I tripped on my shoelace And I fell up—
Up to the roof tops,
Up over the town, 
Up past the tree tops, Up over the mountains, Up where the colors Blend into the sounds. But it got me so dizzy When I looked around,
I got sick to my stomach And I threw down.